---
layout: post
title: What's a Holbemn?
---

Welcome to Holbemn! For some of these questions (and an infinite amount of similarly complex others), there are no clear answers. But rather than turn away from the inherent muddiness of these age-old conundrums, here at Holbemn, we’re going to lean in and face them head-on.

I’d like to begin by saying, I’m glad you’re here! If you’re anything like me, you find that the world of mental health with its various overlapping disciplines and theories can be mysterious and frankly, highly confusing. As a graduate student in Clinical Mental Health Counseling, I often find myself asking questions like, “How is psychoanalysis different than psychotherapy,” “What is the difference between a psychologist, psychiatrist, and a therapist,” and more confounding, human questions such as “Why do I continue habits that I know are bad for me?” 

For some of these questions (and an infinite amount of similarly complex others), there are no clear answers. But rather than turn away from the inherent muddiness of these age-old conundrums, here at Holbemn, we’re going to lean in and face them head-on. Check back here often for explorations of ideas both big and small in mental health as I progress through my training to become a therapist. I’ll be sharing weekly dispatches from therapy school on what our training is like, what it takes to be a counselor (emotionally, personally, & spiritually), and what the process of therapy is like as a therapist. Other times, I will share my favorite mental health resources, news articles, and on occasion, commentary/criticism of how issues in mental health are portrayed by the media.

Helping people achieve their potential through therapy is my main passion, but I also spend my time playing video games, making and consuming music, listening to podcasts, reading, and writing. I am blessed to find myself newly married to my best friend. That this is a terrible cliché, I am well-aware, but it’s the truest way I know to describe her. Together, she and I are two midwestern, mid-twenty-somethings navigating the ups and downs of becoming our own family unit.

I am also a progressive Christian, purposefully embroiled in the process of discovering what this means for me as a counselor and a human being. Above all else, I believe that my faith calls me to recognize that simply by being here in the world, every person has infinite worth, and as such, an equally immense responsibility to love and affirm one another. I hope that my actions and writings reflect this attitude of love.

It is my responsibility that I must also offer a disclaimer that I will in no way, shape, or form provide clinical or professional opinions here at Holbemn. There are a number of reasons for this, first of which being that I am writing here under a pseudonym (for the creative license it grants me), and also that internet interactions are simply not conducive to achieving meaningful assessment or therapy. Additionally, I am not yet licensed, and want to make this absolutely clear. All of this is to say that I would ask you to please consume my writings knowing that they are the personal opinions of someone who simply cares greatly for you and your circumstances, but is in no position to dole out clinical advice.

If you do happen to find yourself in the midst of a dark time due to struggles with substance abuse, interpersonal problems, depression, anxiety, or even if you simply need someone to talk to, I highly recommend that you seek out a counselor. We all have areas of our lives that we can improve, and I’ve found that obtaining impartial third party opinions through counseling is one of the most powerful tools out there for helping us to make those positive changes. Visit my resource page here <insert link> to browse online resources as well as databases of counselors in order to find one in your area.

Please stick around if you are intrigued by anything you’ve read here at Holbemn! There will be new writings here each week, concerning any number of topics in mental health. Also, be sure to add your email to the subscription box if you like what you’ve read and would like each new dispatch delivered to your inbox (no more than two per week, I promise!) Please reach out to me if you have any comments, constructive criticism, or something interesting to share! You can reach me at holbemn(at)holbemn.xyz. Come back soon, and until then, have fun.

Holbemn
